WE CHOPPED AND
STACKED A WHOLE BUNCH
OF WOOD FOR YOU.
MORE THAN
TWO CORDS.
I'LL LOAD
IT TOMORROW.
THAT'S AS MUCH A DAY'S WORK
AS A MAN COULD EXPECT,
ESPECIALLY FROM A
COUPLE OF YOUNG'UNS.
THANK YOU,
MR. CAULDER.
NOW, BOYS...
I GOT THAT NORTH PASTURE
TO START CLEARING.
NOW, IF YOU HAVE
A MIND TO...
YES, SIR.
Mr. Caulder: SAME WAGES,
20 CENTS A DAY EACH.
OH, WE'D LIKE
THAT FINE.
I'LL EXPECT YOU BOTH
BRIGHT AND EARLY TOMORROW.
Mr. Caulder:
FOR YOU...
THANK YOU.
Mr. Caulder: BEST YOU
BOYS BE RUNNING ON.
YOU'LL BE LATE
FOR SUPPER.
BYE, MR.
CAULDER.
SEE YOU TOMORROW!
Andy: GETTING SO
WE'RE FINDING WORK
MOST EVERY DAY.
Albert: YEAH.
IF THINGS KEEP GOING
THE WAY THEY ARE,
WE COULD END UP
SAVING AN AWFUL LOT
BEFORE SUMMER'S OUT.
Andy: HOW MUCH, YOU THINK?
Albert: HMM...
10, MAYBE $12,
EVEN MORE IF WE
WORK 6-DAY WEEKS.
Andy: WHAT WILL
YOU SPEND YOURS ON?
Albert: DON'T RIGHTLY KNOW.
JUST KIND OF LIKE
THAT FEELING THAT
IT'S ALL PILING UP.
Andy: YEAH, ME TOO.
Albert: SEE YOU TOMORROW!
Andy: BYE!
Laura: IT JUST
ISN'T FAIR.
I QUITE AGREE.
Charles: WELL,
I'LL TELL YOU, IT'S
PARTIALLY MY FAULT.
I'VE BEEN SO BUSY
DOING MY WORK,
I HAVEN'T BEEN
KEEPING AN EYE
ON HIM,
MAKING SURE HE'S
DOING HIS CHORES.
Caroline: WELL, I
THINK IT'S TIME WE GOT IT
SETTLED ONCE AND FOR ALL.
OH, DON'T YOU
WORRY, I WILL.
THANK YOU,
CARRIE.
I COULD TELL WHAT
YOU WERE COOKING
HALFWAY UP THE ROAD.
MMM...HUNGRY
AS A BEAR.
ANDY AND ME MUST HAVE
CHOPPED AND STACKED
OVER TWO CORDS TODAY.
SOMETHING
THE MATTER?
NO, BUT I'D
LIKE YOU TO
GO UPSTAIRS,
TAKE A LOOK AT
YOUR PART OF THE
LOFT, PLEASE.
WHY?
JUST DO IT.
SURE.
ALL RIGHT,
I'M LOOKING.
DO YOU SEE
ANYTHING WRONG?
WRONG?
WRONG.
NOPE, JUST THE
WAY I LEFT IT.
Charles: WELL, THAT
HAPPENS TO BE OUR PROBLEM.
HUH?
THE BED ISN'T MADE, THE
WHOLE PLACE IS A MESS.
AND IT'S STARTING
TO SMELL BAD.
WELL, BUT I LIKE
IT THAT WAY.
MAYBE I SHOULDN'T LEAVE
FOOD LYING AROUND, BUT...
WELL, LIKE,
MAKING THE BED.
IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE.
Albert: I HAVE TO MESS
IT UP WHEN I GO TO SLEEP,
AND, WELL, THAT'S PRACTICALLY
THE ONLY TIME I'M UP THERE.
ALBERT, WHEN THIS
MANY PEOPLE LIVE
IN SUCH A VERY
SMALL HOUSE...
WELL, IF ONE PERSON
IS DELIBERATELY MESSY,
THEN EVERYONE SUFFERS.
NOW, KEEPING YOUR
PART OF THE HOUSE NEAT
IS ONE OF THE
RULES AROUND HERE.
WELL, SURE, BUT--
NO BUTS.
LOOK...
LOOK? YOU
WANT TO LOOK?
YOU COME ON OUTSIDE
WITH ME, WE'RE
GOING TO LOOK.
WELL, YOU'VE BEEN
NEGLECTING YOUR
CHORES OUTSIDE, TOO.
I WANT YOU TO TAKE
A LOOK AT THIS
CHICKEN COOP.
YOU MEAN, YOU
REALLY EXPECT ME
TO DO ALL THAT
BESIDES PUTTING IN
A HARD DAY'S WORK?
OF COURSE I DO!
I NEVER ASKED
YOU TO PUT IN A
HARD DAY'S WORK
AT SOMEBODY
ELSE'S PLACE.
WHAT DO YOU WANT TO
WORK ALL THE TIME
FOR ANYWAY?
IT'S SUMMER
VACATION.
WELL, ISN'T VACATION
A TIME WHEN PEOPLE
DO WHAT THEY WANT?
EXACTLY, OF
COURSE IT IS.
THEN WHY SHOULDN'T
I WORK IF THAT'S
WHAT I WANT?
WELL, NO REASON AT
ALL, AS LONG AS YOU
DO YOUR CHORES AND
YOU KEEP THE
LOFT CLEAN.
NOW, COME ON,
CLEAN UP THE COOP.
DO YOU HAVE TO
DO THOSE KINDS
OF THINGS
WHEN YOU COME HOME
FROM A DAY'S WORK?
OF COURSE
I DON'T.
WHY?
BECAUSE IT'S
DIFFERENT,
THAT'S WHY.
IN WHAT WAY?
ALBERT, TRY TO
UNDERSTAND, I'M
SUPPORTING A FAMILY.
I'M DOING
A MAN'S WORK.
IS CHOPPING
FIREWOOD MAN'S WORK?
SURE.
IS CLEARING
A PASTURE
MAN'S WORK?
Charles:
YEAH.
IS PLOWING A FIELD
MAN'S WORK?
OF COURSE IT IS.
Albert: WELL, THAT'S
WHAT I'VE BEEN DOING.
SO, IF I CAN DO
THE WORK OF A MAN,
I SHOULD HAVE THE RIGHT
TO BE TREATED LIKE ONE.
ALBERT, I--I AM
THE MAN AROUND HERE,
AND YOU DO WHAT I SAY.
Charles: IF YOU WANT
TO WORK, YOU WORK FOR
ME, AND I'LL PAY YOU.
NO, THAT WOULD
WRECK EVERYTHING.
WHY?
Albert: BECAUSE
IT'S AN ALLOWANCE,
AND ALLOWANCES
ARE FOR KIDS.
WELL, WHAT ARE YOU?
I'M A MAN, AND
YOU JUST SAID SO.
I DID NOT.
YOU SAID A
MAN CHOPS WOOD,
CLEARS AND PLOWS--
CLEAN THE
COOP, ALBERT.
COME ON, CLEAN
THE COOP.
GROWN-UPS...
WHENEVER THEY'RE WRONG,
THEY YELL AT YOU.
JUST CLEAN THE COOP!
BUT I ALREADY
TOLD MR. CAULDER
I'D KEEP ON
WORKING FOR HIM.
NO.
ALICE,
LOOKING BACK,
EVEN BEFORE I WAS
AS OLD AS ANDY,
I WAS ALREADY
DOING A MAN'S WORK.
THE BOY AIN'T NO
DIFFERENT THAN ME.
OH, YES,
HE IS.
WELL, HOW?
WHEN YOU WERE
HIS AGE, THERE
WAS NO SCHOOL.
YOU DIDN'T HAVE TO
STOP BEING A MAN AT
THE END OF EVERY SUMMER
AND GO BACK
TO BEING A BOY,
A BOY WITH
SCHOOLWORK
AND CHORES.
THE BOYS UNDERSTAND
THAT THIS IS JUST
FOR THE SUMMER.
AIN'T THAT
RIGHT, SON?
WELL, NOT GETTING
EDUCATED DIDN'T
HURT YOU NONE, PA.
CAN'T SEE WHY IT
WOULDN'T HURT
ME NEITHER.
THERE,
YOU SEE?
NOW, WHAT'S THAT
SUPPOSED TO MEAN?
I'VE BEEN
MEANING TO TALK
TO YOU ABOUT IT.
ABOUT WHAT?
WELL, SINCE I CAN
DO A MAN'S WORK,
I DON'T SEE NO NEED
TO GO BACK TO SCHOOL.
"ANY" NEED.
NOW, YOU SEE THE
KIND OF IDEA YOU
PUT INTO HIS HEAD?
I DID NO SUCH THING.
SON, WHEN I WAS
YOUR AGE, THERE
WEREN'T NO SCHOOL,
AND I DIDN'T
HAVE A CHANCE
FOR AN EDUCATION.
Jonathan: YOU'RE
GOING TO HAVE
THAT CHANCE.
SO?
OH, "SEW" BUTTONS
ON YOUR SHIRT!
GO TO YOUR ROOM.
YOU ALWAYS SAID YOU'D
BE SO PROUD OF ME
IF I EVER GREW UP
TO BE LIKE PA,
AND WHEN I WANT TO,
YOU SEND ME TO MY ROOM.
AFTER SUPPER, I'LL...
I'LL GO OVER TO
THE INGALLS' PLACE
AND TELL ALBERT THAT
ANDY AIN'T GOING TO BE
WORKING WITH HIM ANYMORE.
I DON'T KNOW
WHAT THE ANSWER
IS, CHARLES.
SEEMS KIND OF
WRONG TELLING
A BOY NO
AND NOT
TELLING HIM
THE WHY OF IT.
WELL, LET THEM HAVE
THEIR OWN WAY, AND
YOU KNOW WHAT WE GOT.
A COUPLE OF LITTLE
BOYS ACTING LIKE
LORDS OF THE MANOR
BECAUSE THEY EARNED
A DAY'S WAGES.
YEAH, I
SUPPOSE SO.
WELL, THEY'RE
GOING TO FIND OUT
THERE'S A MIGHTY
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
SAYING YOU'RE A MAN
- AND BEING ONE.
- ALL RIGHT.
PULL THAT LIGHT
OVER HERE FOR ME,
WILL YOU?
YEAH.
FUNNY THING, WHEN
I WAS THAT SAME AGE,
I WAS EXACTLY
THE WAY THEY ARE.
YEAH, ME TOO.
COULDN'T WAIT
TO BE A MAN.
YEAH.
I REMEMBER
ONE TIME...
I WAS FEELING
SO FULL OF MYSELF
I TOOK ON SOMETHING
MY PA SAID I WASN'T
READY FOR.
OLD TRAPPER GOT
HIS-SELF KICKED IN
THE HEAD BY A MULE.
HIS EYES SWELLED UP,
HE WANTED TO HIRE
ME TO RUN HIS LINES
WHILE HE WAS MENDING.
YOU KNOW, COLLECTING
AND BAITING AND SUCH.
MEANT 3 DAYS AND 3 NIGHTS
OUT THERE, ALL ALONE.
Jonathan: HA, MY PA,
HE ARGUED HARD AND...
HE FINALLY JUST UP AND
SAID, "GO AHEAD AND GO."
HA, WELL, I DON'T
HAVE TO TELL YOU
THOSE WERE 3 OF THE LONGEST,
LONELIEST NIGHTS OF MY LIFE.
HA HA!
YEAH...SOMETHING
ABOUT BEING OUT THERE
ALL ALONE IN
THE WILDERNESS
KNOCK A HOLE
IN THE WAY A
SWELLED-UP YOUNG MAN
IS FEELING
ABOUT HIMSELF.
MOTHER NATURE
KIND OF HAS A WAY OF
DOING THAT, CHARLES.
YOU KNOW, IT WASN'T
UNTIL A COUPLE YEARS LATER
I FOUND OUT THAT MY PA HAD
FOLLOWED ME THOSE 3 DAYS
JUST TO MAKE SURE
NO HURT COME TO ME.
JONATHAN, I
THINK THAT'S IT.
YOU THINK
THAT'S WHAT?
PUT THE BOYS THROUGH
SOMETHING LIKE YOU
WENT THROUGH.
YOU MEAN KIND
OF LIKE A TEST?
Charles: SURE.
YOU KNOW THAT ROAD
TO SLEEPY EYE.
THAT WINDS AROUND
SOME OF THE ROUGHEST
COUNTRY IN THE STATE.
Charles: NOW, IF
WE SENT THE BOYS--
NOW, CHARLES, WE CAN'T DO
THAT, THAT AIN'T NO FAIR
TEST, THEY'D NEVER MAKE IT.
WELL, I KNOW.
BUT THEY WOULD
LEARN A FEW THINGS,
WOULDN'T THEY?
Jonathan:
DO YOU THINK
THEY'D GO FOR IT?
WELL, YOU DID.
Charles:
WHAT DO YOU SAY?
I THINK THAT'S
DOWNRIGHT MEAN.
LET'S DO IT.
YEAH, LET'S.
HA HA!
HA HA HA!
Charles: DON'T LET ME FORGET
TO GIVE YOU YOUR BEEF JERKY.
Andy: IS THAT
ALL WE GET?
Jonathan: WELL, IT'S
PART OF THE TEST, SON.
YOU GOT TO LEARN
TO LIVE OFF THE LAND,
FORAGE FOR YOUR FOOD.
YOU GOT HOOKS
FOR FISHING AND
MAKINGS FOR A SNARE.
Charles: BESIDES, IF
YOU'RE CAREFUL, IT'LL LAST
YOU A COUPLE OF DAYS.
Albert: HOW YOU GOING
TO KNOW IF WE GET ALL
THE WAY TO SLEEPY EYE?
Charles: I THOUGHT
ABOUT THAT.
HAD A LETTER
SENT IN THERE BY
STAGE YESTERDAY.
IT'S ADDRESSED TO ME.
WHEN YOU GET TO SLEEPY EYE,
ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS
GO TO THE POST OFFICE,
PICK IT UP, AND BRING
IT BACK HOME TO US.
Albert: AND WHEN WE DO,
YOU'LL STICK TO YOUR
PART OF THE DEAL?
Charles: HONEST INJUN.
LONG AS YOU'RE WORKING,
YOU PAY YOUR OWN WAY,
YOU CAN MAKE YOUR
OWN DECISIONS.
Andy: AND THEN I
CAN QUIT SCHOOL?
THAT'S
RIGHT, SON.
WELL, HERE
WE ARE.
FELLAS,
SLEEPY EYE...
THAT-A WAY.
LET'S GO.
YEAH.
Charles: GOOD LUCK.
SEE YOU IN
ABOUT 6 DAYS!
WELL, THERE THEY GO.
CHARLES, IF YOU'RE
SO SURE THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO MAKE IT,
HOW COME YOU
SENT THAT LETTER
TO SLEEPY EYE?
WELL, MIRACLES
DO HAPPEN.
BESIDES, YOU AND
I BELIEVE IN FAIR
PLAY, DON'T WE?
[LAUGHS]
WHAT DO YOU
GIVE THEM, 4,
MAYBE 5 HOURS?
YEAH, MAYBE A
LITTLE BIT MORE.
I'M SURE WE'RE
GOING TO BE
HOME FOR SUPPER.
WELL, I'M
ALL FOR THAT.
COME ON, LET'S
FOLLOW THEM.
UH...WE'RE
FAR ENOUGH IN.
WE'RE SAFE.
SAFE FOR WHAT?
TO GO BACK TO THE
ROAD, WHAT ELSE?
WHAT?
YOU DON'T REALLY EXPECT
ME TO GO THROUGH ALL THAT
JUST TO GET TO SLEEPY EYE.
Andy:
OF COURSE YOU DO.
ARE YOU CRAZY?
WE CAN PICK UP A
RIDE ON A WAGON
AND BE THERE BEFORE
SUNDOWN TOMORROW.
NOT A CHANCE.
LOOK, WE PICK
UP THE LETTER,
FISH OR SOMETHING
FOR A FEW DAYS,
AND WE COME BACK
THE SAME WAY.
WE'RE NOT CHEATING,
AND THAT'S THAT.
WHO'S TO KNOW?
I'M TO KNOW,
THAT'S WHO.
AND YOU'RE
TO KNOW.
OH, GROW UP,
WILL YOU?
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
SUPPOSED TO BE DOING
BY TAKING THIS ON.
ALL WE HAVE TO DO IS
MAKE IT LOOK GOOD.
ALBERT, WE
MADE A DEAL,
AND I'M
STICKING TO IT.
WELL, I'M NOT.
FINE, YOU CATCH YOUR
RIDE INTO SLEEPY EYE
BUT NOT WITH ME.
ANDY, WHERE
ARE YOU GOING?
MAKE UP YOUR
MIND, ALBERT.
EITHER WE STICK
TO THE DEAL
OR I'M TURNING
AROUND RIGHT
NOW AND GO BACK
AND TELL EVERYBODY THAT
WE WERE TOO SCARED TO
GO THROUGH WITH IT.
YOU'D DO THAT?
TRY ME.
ALL RIGHT, WE
DO IT YOUR WAY.
HOW COULD ANYBODY
BE SO DUMB?
THAT BEEF JERKY
SURE MAKES
YOU THIRSTY.
YEAH.
HOW LONG HAVE
WE BEEN GONE?
I DON'T KNOW.
I'M GETTING TIRED.
YEAH, ME TOO.
SHH, LISTEN.
[WATER WHOOSHING]
WATER!
JUST LIKE I TOLD
YOU, WE COULD
FISH FOR SUPPER
AND SET A RABBIT TRAP
FOR TOMORROW, COME ON!
I DON'T THINK THOSE
YOUNG'UNS EVER
STOP FOR A REST.
I WAS THINKING
THE SAME THING.
YEAH, WE'RE HEADING
DOWN THAT GORGE NOW.
NO WAY THEY'RE GOING
TO GET AWAY FROM US.
WHY DON'T WE STOP
AND REST A PIECE?
THAT'S FINE WITH ME.
I FIGURE THEY
OUGHT TO GET A LITTLE
DISCOURAGED BY NOW, EH?
THE SOONER,
THE BETTER.
MY STOMACH'S
STARTING
TO GROWL.
NO NEED FOR THAT.
HERE YOU GO.
OH...JERKY!
UH, NOT BAD.
[BOYS SCREAMING]
AAH!
[SCREAMING CONTINUES]
WOO!
YIPPEE! HA HA!
[SPLASHING]
WOO!
WOO-HOO!
HA HA!
YIPPEE!
YAY!
OHH...
OH, CHARLES, THAT TOOK
10 YEARS OFF MY LIFE.
MINE, TOO.
HEY!
SMELL THOSE
FISH COOKING?
YEAH, THAT'S ALL
I'VE BEEN SMELLING.
THEM TWO AIN'T
SUFFERING MUCH
HARDSHIP YET, ARE THEY?
WELL, THEY WILL.
JUST TAKING A
LITTLE LONGER THAN WE
FIGURED, THAT'S ALL.
I WISH I HAD A COLD.
WHAT?
I SAID I WISH
I HAD A COLD.
I WOULDN'T SMELL
THAT FISH FRYING.
AS CHILLY AS IT'S GETTING,
YOU'LL GET YOUR WISH.
YOU'LL GET A NICE COLD,
YOU WON'T SMELL ANYTHING.
AIN'T WORKING OUT
LIKE WE PLANNED IT.
WE WERE SUPPOSED TO
BE HOME FOR SUPPER
BY NOW, CHARLES.
WOULD YOU NOT TALK
ABOUT THAT, PLEASE?
HMM? JUST DON'T
TALK ABOUT IT.
THANK YOU.
THERE WAS
SOME POISON
OAK OVER THERE.
READY TO EAT?
YUP.
LET'S DIG IN.
WHAT HAPPENED
TO THEM?
I DON'T KNOW.
MAYBE THE PAN
GOT TOO HOT.
TRY ONE.
SORRY, ANDY.
NEXT TIME I WON'T
GET THE PAN SO HOT.
TRUTH IS...
I'M SO TIRED, I
REALLY DON'T CARE.
YEAH.
AT LEAST WE'LL BE
NICE AND WARM.
TO TELL YOU THE
TRUTH, I'M NOT MUCH
FOR FISH ANYWAY.
I DON'T THINK MOST
KIDS LIKE FISH.
THAT'S WHY GROWNUPS
HAVE TO MAKE UP STORIES
TO GET US TO EAT THEM,
TELLING US THEY'RE
BRAIN FOOD.
IF FISH ARE SO SMART,
HOW COME THEY GET CAUGHT?
MAYBE TOMORROW WE'LL
CATCH US A RABBIT
IN ONE OF THEM SNARES.
WHAT DO YOU
THINK, ANDY?
ANDY?
I WISH WE COULD
HAVE A FIRE AND GET
WARMED UP A LITTLE.
OH, SO DO I, BUT WE
CAN'T TAKE A CHANCE
THEY SPOT IT.
YOU KNOW, THE NEXT TIME
YOU START REMINISCING
ABOUT YOUR BOYHOOD,
YOU JUST KEEP IT TO
YOURSELF, ALL RIGHT?
NOW, CHARLES, YOU
KNOW THIS IDEA OF A
TEST WAS YOUR IDEA.
I'LL LET YOU KNOW I GOT
THE IDEA FOR THE TEST
FROM THAT SILLY STORY YOU
WERE TELLING ME ABOUT YOU--
SHH!
ALL RIGHT, LET'S
NOT ARGUE ABOUT IT.
NOW, WE'LL JUST--JUST
GO TO SLEEP.
THEY'RE BOUND TO
GIVE UP BY TOMORROW.
NIGHT, NOW.
GOOD NIGHT, CHARLES.
I DON'T KNOW
WHAT'S GOING TO
BE GOOD ABOUT IT.
[BIRDS CHIRPING]
CHARLES.
HMM?
- CHARLES.
- WHAT?
SUN'S UP.
OH...I WAS
HOPING I DREAMED
THIS LAST NIGHT.
YOU DIDN'T.
I HOPE THIS AIN'T
GOING TO TAKE TOO
MUCH LONGER.
OH, MY HANDS
ARE NEVER GOING
TO GET WARM AGAIN.
COME ON, LET'S
CHECK ON THE BOYS.
YEAH.
LOOK AT THEM
TWO DOWN THERE.
Charles: THEY DON'T
LOOK LIKE THEY'RE
SUFFERING MUCH, DO THEY?
Jonathan: THERE AIN'T
NO MORE FISHING BETWEEN
HERE AND SLEEPY EYE.
IT'LL BE A LITTLE
DIFFERENT WHEN THEIR
BELLIES ARE EMPTY.
WELL, I HOPE
YOU'RE RIGHT.
I DON'T FEEL LIKE
SPENDING ANOTHER NIGHT
LIKE THE LAST ONE.
COME ON, LET'S
GET OUT IN THE SUN.
[ANIMAL SCREECHING]
A RABBIT.
[SCREECHING]
GIVE ME THE KNIFE,
GIVE ME THE KNIFE!
JUST OUR LUCK.
CHARLES, I DON'T
KNOW WHETHER I CAN
EVEN TAKE THE SMELL
OF COOKING RABBIT.
HMM...
YOU EVER CLEAN
ONE OF THESE?
NOPE.
MUST BE JUST LIKE
CLEANING A FISH.
YEAH, WELL...
I CLEANED THE
FISH LAST NIGHT.
YOU BETTER DO IT.
ME?
I NEVER KILLED
A RABBIT BEFORE.
NEITHER HAVE I.
OH, I JUST
CAN'T DO IT.
I CAN'T DO IT EITHER.
WE MIGHT AS
WELL LET HIM GO.
THEY LET
HIM GO, HA!
I THINK WE
GOT THEM NOW.
[INDISTINCT]
AND KEEP GOING.
WE'LL FIND
ANOTHER CREAK.
THIS DIDN'T
FEEL LIKE ONE
TO MY STOMACH.
OH, THANK GOODNESS
THEY'RE NOT EATING.
UH, HOLD UP A
MINUTE, I GOT ANOTHER
ROCK IN MY SHOE.
HOW LONG YOU THINK
WE'VE BEEN WALKING?
OH, I DON'T KNOW.
3 HOURS MAYBE.
WHAT IF THERE
ISN'T ANOTHER
STREAM?
WHAT IF WE DON'T
CATCH NO MORE FISH?
WELL, YOU SHOULD HAVE
THOUGHT THAT BEFORE YOU
TURNED THAT RABBIT LOOSE.
YOU TOLD ME TO!
AND I TOLD YOU TO
HITCH A RIDE WITH
ME ON A WAGON.
YOU DIDN'T LISTEN
TO ME THEN.
THINK WE OUGHT
TO TURN BACK?
I DON'T KNOW.
I HATE THINKING ABOUT
GOING BACK AND ADMIT
THAT WE COULDN'T MAKE IT.
HEY, THINKING ABOUT
STARVING, TOO.
YEAH.
WELL, LET'S GO BACK
WHERE WE CAUGHT THAT OTHER
FISH AND DECIDE THEN.
ALL RIGHT.
I TAKE BACK EVERYTHING
I SAID, IT WORKED.
I KNEW IT WAS
GOING TO WORK
ALL THE TIME.
YEAH, I'LL BET
YOU DID, COME ON.
ALBERT!
WHAT IS IT?
BERRIES,
HUNDREDS OF THEM.
WE CAN MAKE
IT NOW!
WE CAN MAKE IT!
MMM...THEY'RE GOOD.
LET'S ONLY EAT
HALF OF THEM NOW
AND SAVE THE
REST FOR LATER.
ALL RIGHT.
MMM...
THOSE BERRIES
LOOK GOOD.
YEAH.
MMM...
YOU FEELING
BETTER?
MMM, YEAH.
SLEEPY EYE,
HERE WE COME.
Albert: LET'S GO.
LET'S EAT SOME OF
THOSE BERRIES AND
THEN FOLLOW THEM.
YEAH.
Charles: COME ON.
MY STOMACH.
OH, BERRIES!
BERRIES...
BERRIES?
THEM TWO DIDN'T
LEAVE MUCH, DID THEY?
UH-OH.
WE'LL SPLIT IT.
[THUNDER RUMBLING]
LOOKS LIKE A BAD
ONE BUILDING UP.
WHO CARES? WE'LL
BE IN SLEEPY EYE
IN A COUPLE HOURS.
Jonathan: SO WILL THE BOYS.
[THUNDER]
I WAS JUST
CLOSING UP.
WE'VE COME
FOR A LETTER.
IT'S ADDRESSED TO
CHARLES INGALLS.
- INGALLS, HUH?
- YES, SIR.
WELL, LET
ME LOOK.
WELL, THERE IT BE.
COME IN QUITE
A FEW DAYS AGO.
- YES, SIR, THANK YOU.
- WE'RE OBLIGED.
I DON'T BELIEVE
I SEEN YOU BOYS
AROUND BEFORE.
- OH, WE'RE PASSING THROUGH.
- IS THAT SO?
MM-HMM.
COULD YOU TELL US
WHERE WE COULD GET
SOMETHING TO EAT?
AND MAYBE STAY
THE NIGHT?
WELL, THE ONLY
ROOMING HOUSE IN TOWN
IS MRS. CHANNING'S.
SHE COULD FEED YOU AND
PUT YOU UP FOR THE NIGHT.
IT'S UP THE END
OF THE ROAD,
UH, BIGGEST
HOUSE IN TOWN.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE OBLIGED.
WHAT ARE YOU TALKING
ABOUT? WE DON'T
HAVE ANY MONEY.
I KNOW THAT.
WE GOT SOMETHING
BETTER THAN MONEY.
WHAT?
SAD LITTLE FACES.
COME ON.
[THUNDER CRASHES]
THANK YOU.
MY LANDS,
WHAT A SIGHT.
NOT A TOOTH IN HIS
MOUTH, AND HE EATS
ANYTHING I SERVE UP.
YUP, THAT'S ALL
WATER ALL RIGHT.
[DOORBELL RINGING]
NOW, WHO IN THE
WORLD IS THAT?
HARLEY, PASS
OVER THEM PEAS.
[RINGING]
WELL, WHO DO
WE HAVE HERE?
SORRY TO BOTHER YOU
LIKE THIS, MA'AM.
OH, COME IN OUT
OF THE DOWNPOUR,
MY HEAVENS!
LAND SAKES, IF
YOU AIN'T A SIGHT!
SORRY TO GET
YOUR FLOORS ALL
WET, MA'AM.
DON'T WORRY
ABOUT THE FLOOR.
NOW, WHAT ARE YOU
BOYS DOING OUT ON A
DAY LIKE THIS, HUH?
WELL, THE STORM CAME
ON US REAL SUDDEN
BEFORE WE COULD
FIND SHELTER.
WELL, WHY DIDN'T
YOU JUST GO HOME?
HOME...
DID YOU HEAR
THAT, BROTHER?
YEAH.
WELL, WHERE
ARE YOU FROM?
NOW, WHERE ARE
YOUR FOLKS?
OUR FOLKS?
THEY'RE, UH...
THEY'RE DEAD,
MA'AM.
DEAD?
Albert: YES'M.
WE'RE ORPHANS.
WE'VE BEEN ORPHANS
OVER A MONTH NOW.
LAND SAKES.
WE LIVED OVER
IN WALNUT GROVE.
ONE NIGHT, OUR
HOUSE CAUGHT FIRE
AND BURNED TO THE GROUND.
MY BROTHER AND
ME ARE THE ONLY
ONES TO GET OUT.
LAND SAKES!
WELL, WE GOT NO
OTHER FAMILY, SO...
WE JUST BEEN DOING
FOR OURSELVES.
YOU MEAN YOU TWO
ARE ALL ALONE
IN THE WORLD?
YES'M.
I DECLARE.
WE'RE DOWN TO OUR
LAST FEW BERRIES.
FOLKS TOLD US THERE
WAS A LOT OF WORK UP
IN LAFAYETTE, AND,
WELL, THAT'S WHERE
WE WERE HEADING
WHEN THE STORM HIT.
WE SHOULDN'T BE HERE
STANDING ON THIS KIND
LADY'S FLOOR, DRIPPING.
WE BETTER GO.
NOT IN THIS RAIN,
YOU'RE NOT.
NOW, YOU GET
OUT OF THEM WET
SHIRTS AT LEAST.
SUPPER'S ON THE
TABLE, AND I'LL
GET SOME TOWELS.
[THUNDER]
CAN YOU
BELIEVE IT?
WHY, THEY'RE
TWO LITTLE MEN.
HUNGRY ONES,
TOO.
YUP, THEY'S
HUNGRY,
ALL RIGHT.
NOW, WOULD YOU LIKE
A LITTLE DESSERT?
I SURE WOULD!
OH, NO, ANDY.
WE'VE BEEN
GIVEN TOO
MUCH ALREADY.
NONSENSE, WE'VE
GOT PLENTY.
RICE PUDDING.
Mrs. Channing:
YOU LIKE RICE
PUDDING, DON'T YOU?
Andy:
YES, MA'AM!
NO, PLEASE, YOU'VE
BEEN TOO KIND.
NEXT THING,
YOU'LL OFFER US
SOME OF THAT CHOCOLATE
CAKE OVER THERE.
AND YOU'LL TAKE IT
WITH NO ARGUMENT.
DO YOU UNDERSTAND?
SO MUCH LIKE MA,
AIN'T SHE, ANDY?
Andy: YEAH,
SO MUCH LIKE MA.
I'LL HAVE SOME OF THAT
CHOCOLATE CAKE, TOO.
I'LL GET IT RIGHT NOW.
REGULAR LITTLE MEN.
[THUNDER CRASHES]
WAIT TILL THOSE
TWO FINISH EATING
ALL THAT FOOD.
THEY CAN'T PAY FOR IT,
THEY'RE GOING TO BE
IN A MESS OF TROUBLE.
YEAH, I HOPE THEY
CALL THE LAW ON THEM,
PUT A LITTLE FEAR
OF GOD IN THEM.
YEAH, IT'LL
STILL WORK OUT
PERFECT, THOUGH.
WE'LL LET THEM SPEND
THE NIGHT IN JAIL.
WE CAN COME
IN TOMORROW
AND TELL THEM
THAT WE HEARD AND
CAME ON THE STAGE.
IN THE MEANTIME,
WE CAN GET US
A WARM BED
AND GET OUT
OF THIS RAIN
AND GET SOME FOOD.
I'M HUNGRY.
RIGHT, THAT'LL
TEACH THEM A LESSON.
HOW MUCH MONEY
DID YOU BRING?
FOR WHAT?
FOR THE BED
AND THE FOOD.
HOW MUCH MONEY
DID YOU BRING?
YOU DID BRING MONEY.
CHARLES, I THOUGHT
YOU HAD SOME MONEY.
I DIDN'T BRING
ANY MONEY!
Man: DO SOMETHING
FOR YOU, GENTLEMEN?
UH...AHEM...
NO, NO, SIR.
CONSTABLE!
OH, CONSTABLE...
CONSTABLE, WE WERE
JUST WAITING OUT HERE
FOR THOSE TWO LITTLE
BOYS TO FINISH EATING.
FOR WHAT?
WELL, YOU SEE, WE'VE
BEEN FOLLOWING THOSE
TWO LITTLE BOYS NOW
FOR ABOUT 3 DAYS
NOW, AND WE WERE--
YOU'VE BEEN
FOLLOWING TWO LITTLE
BOYS FOR 3 DAYS?
OH, NO, NO,
NO, YOU DON'T
UNDERSTAND...
I HOPE TO ST.
FRANCIS I DON'T.
UH-UH, NO, NO, NO,
YOU SEE, THOSE ARE OUR
LITTLE BOYS IN THERE.
YEAH.
OH, THEY'RE YOUR
TWO LITTLE BOYS.
- RIGHT.
- YEAH.
AND YOU'VE BEEN
FOLLOWING THEM
FOR 3 DAYS?
YEAH, YEAH.
IT'S A LITTLE
HARD TO EXPLAIN.
SEE, YOU SEE,
IT'S KIND OF
LIKE A TEST.
A TEST?
I EXPECT YOUR BOYS
WOULD RECOGNIZE
YOU ON SIGHT.
- OF COURSE.
- YEAH.
WELL, THEN, LET'S JUST
GO ON OVER AND SEE.
OH, NO, NO, NO,
WE CAN'T DO THAT.
SEE, IT'LL
SPOIL EVERYTHING.
WE DON'T WANT THEM
TO SEE US UNTIL
THEY GET IN TROUBLE.
UNTIL THEY GET
INTO TROUBLE?
YEAH, YOU SEE THEM
EATING IN THERE?
THEY HAVEN'T GOT
ANY MONEY, THEY
CAN'T PAY FOR IT.
AS SOON AS THAT WOMAN FINDS
OUT, THEY'RE GOING TO GET
IN A LOT OF TROUBLE.
CHARLES, LOOKS LIKE
THEY'RE FINISHING
UP IN THERE.
HEY, THEY'RE GOING
TO GET IT NOW.
THEY DON'T LOOK
LIKE THEY'RE IN
TROUBLE TO ME.
LET'S SEE HOW MUCH
MONEY YOU GOT.
WELL, YOU--
YOU SEE, UH...
WE DON'T ACTUALLY
HAVE ANY MONEY
WITH US.
WE, UH--
THAT'S WHAT I
KIND OF FIGURED.
I'VE SEEN AND HEARD
THINGS IN MY LIFE
I WISH I HADN'T,
AND YOU TWO--
NOW, CONSTABLE,
PLEASE, BELIEVE ME, I
CAN EXPLAIN THIS TO YOU.
NOW, GET OUT!
LISTEN, SIR.
GO ON, WHILE I
STILL GOT MY TEMPER.
HEY...
YOU--YOU--
YOU'RE WRONG.
IT'S NOT MUCH,
BUT IT'S GOING
TO HAVE TO DO.
THE BOYS ARE GOING
TO BE ALL RIGHT.
THEY'LL BE SLEEPING
IN A NICE, WARM
HOTEL TONIGHT.
THEY MUST HAVE HAD
SOME MONEY WITH
THEM AFTER ALL.
Charles: YEAH.
Man: WHAT DO
YOU TWO WANT?
UH...AHEM...
IS THIS
YOUR PLACE?
Man: YOU GOT IT.
NOW, WHAT DO YOU WANT?
WELL, YOU SEE,
WE WERE FOLLOWING
OUR TWO LITTLE BOYS--
WE RAN OUT OF MONEY,
AND WE'RE JUST LOOKING
FOR A PLACE TO SLEEP.
AND I SUPPOSE
YOU WANT ME TO
PROVIDE IT FOR YOU
OUT OF THE GOODNESS
OF MY HEART, HUH?
THAT WOULD BE
REAL NICE OF YOU.
Man: NO ACCOUNT DRIFTERS!
YOU ARE ALL JUST ALIKE--
BORN WITH ONE HAND
STICKING OUT.
WELL, ONE OF THESE DAYS,
YOU'LL JUST HAVE TO LEARN
YOU'LL HAVE
TO EARN YOUR WAY,
AFTER WHAT LITTLE
THIS WORLD PROVIDES.
Man: NOW, IF'N YOUSE
CLEAN THEM STALLS
RIGHT OVER YONDER,
IT MIGHT EARN YOU A DRY
SPOT FOR THE NIGHT.
SHOVELS IS BY THE DOOR.
THE SHOVELS
IS BY THE DOOR.
THANK YOU!
[THUNDER]
- UH!
THIS IS
SOME BED!
YEAH, IT
SURE IS.
I'M GLAD
YOU LIKE IT.
NOW, YOU TWO
FELLOWS GET A GOOD
NIGHT'S SLEEP,
AND I'LL SEE YOU
IN THE MORNING.
- YES, MA'AM.
- GOOD NIGHT.
GOOD NIGHT.
REGULAR LITTLE MEN.
YOU SURE ARE GOOD,
BROTHER ALBERT.
I KNOW.
NIGHT.
Andy: STILL
CAN'T BELIEVE IT.
Albert: YEAH, DON'T
HAVE TO DO ANY FISHING
WITH ALL THE FOOD
SHE PACKED US.
CAN'T EVEN THINK
ABOUT IT AFTER
THAT BREAKFAST.
YEAH.
LOOK
AT THAT.
THAT CAN'T
BE THE STREAM
WE CROSSED.
THE RAIN MUST
HAVE DONE IT.
WELL, HOW ARE
WE GOING TO
GET ACROSS IT?
DON'T KNOW.
WE'LL HAVE TO
THINK OF SOMETHING.
RAIN'S GOT
THAT RIVER
RUNNING HIGH.
I THINK WE
GOT THEM NOW.
YEAH, THEY'RE
NEVER GOING TO
GET ACROSS THAT.
THEY'LL HAVE TO GO
ALL THE WAY BACK
TO SLEEPY EYE
AND THEN DOUBLE
AROUND ON THAT ROAD
AND USE THE BRIDGE.
AND WE JUST COME
BACK AND CATCH
THEM CHEATING.
I THINK WE
GOT THEM...
IF WE DON'T STARVE
TO DEATH FIRST.
Albert: LET'S
CHECK DOWNSTREAM.
HA! WE GOT THEM.
Albert: HEY,
LOOK AT THAT!
COME ON!
WE CAN GET
ACROSS THAT EASY.
IT SURE DOESN'T
LOOK EASY TO ME.
AH, SURE IT DOES.
COME ON.
DAD BURN IT!
WHY'D THAT TREE HAVE
TO FALL RIGHT THERE?
CHARLES, IT LOOKS
LIKE THEY'RE GOING TO
MAKE IT ACROSS THERE.
OH, NO.
CAN'T THEY JUST GET
WET OR SOMETHING?
COME ON.
DAD-BURNED KIDS.
ALL RIGHT.
CHARLES, ARE
YOU SURE WE CAN
GET ACROSS THIS?
OF COURSE
WE CAN GET
ACROSS THIS.
WHAT ARE YOU WORRIED
ABOUT, ANYWAY?
YOU'RE TALLER
THAN I AM.
WHAT'S THAT GOT
TO DO WITH IT?
I DON'T KNOW, I'M
DELIRIOUS FROM
HUNGER. COME ON.
AAH!
HEY, NO!
CHARLES, I'M SORRY
I GRABBED YOU.
YOU OWE ME A HAT.
I DON'T THINK WE
CAME THIS WAY.
HMM, ME
NEITHER.
LET'S TRY
THAT WAY.
WE CAN'T BE
FAR OFF TRACK.
Charles: DIDN'T
REALIZE WE GOT CARRIED
SO FAR DOWNSTREAM.
Jonathan: YEAH, I HOPE
WE CAN PICK UP THEIR
TRAIL PRETTY QUICK.
Charles: WE'LL JUST
KEEP PUSHING ON IN THAT
GENERAL DIRECTION,
AND HOPE TO SPOT
THEIR CAMPFIRE.
I'LL BE GLAD WHEN
THIS IS OVER.
OH, MY WHOLE
FOOT'S JUST ONE
BIG BLISTER.
YEAH.
YOU KNOW, I STILL
DON'T THINK WE
CAME THIS WAY.
OH, WHAT'S THE
DIFFERENCE?
WE'RE MOST OF
THE WAY BACK
ALREADY.
HOW LOST
CAN WE GET?
YEAH.
[TWIG SNAPS]
WHAT WAS THAT?
WHAT?
I HEARD SOMETHING.
[SNAP]
THERE IT IS AGAIN.
JUST SOME ANIMAL.
HE WON'T COME
NEAR THE FIRE.
YEAH.
THAT'S RIGHT.
HMM...
BET OUR FOLKS
ARE GOING TO BE
SURPRISED TOMORROW.
I DON'T THINK
THEY FIGURED
WE COULD DO IT.
I HAD THAT
FEELING MYSELF.
AND LOOK
AT US NOW.
WASN'T EASY, BUT
WASN'T ALL THAT
HARD EITHER.
HOW MANY BOYS
OUR AGE COULD
HAVE DONE IT?
NOT MANY. NOT
MANY GROWN-UPS
NEITHER.
THAT'S RIGHT.
WE HANDLED
EVERYTHING
JUST RIGHT.
EVEN THAT
STORY ABOUT US
BEING ORPHANS.
WELL, THAT'S
ALL PART OF IT.
WOUND UP MAKING
US FEELING GOOD
AND HER
FEELING GOOD.
YOU HANDLED
YOUR PART JUST
RIGHT, TOO.
NOT AS GOOD
AS YOU.
WELL, THE WHOLE
POINT IS...
I THINK WE PROVED
THAT WE CAN TAKE ON
JUST ABOUT ANYTHING
LIFE HANDS US.
[CRAZED LAUGHTER]
HA HA HA!
Vagrant: OOH, HA HA HA!
HEE, HA HA HA!
HA HA HA!
OOH, HA HA HA!
WHAT WAS THAT?
I DON'T KNOW,
AND I DON'T WANT
TO FIND OUT.
OH, ME NEITHER.
OH, NO.
WHAT IS IT?
THE LETTER,
THE LETTER WAS
BACK THERE.
THEY'LL NEVER
BELIEVE US NOW.
WE HAVE
TO GO BACK.
I'M NOT
GOING BACK.
ME NEITHER.
COME ON.
CHARLES, OVER HERE!
I DON'T KNOW WHAT'S
HAPPENED HERE.
ALBERT!
ANDY!
CHARLES.
Jonathan:
IT'S THE LETTER.
THEY WOULDN'T HAVE LEFT
THAT BEHIND UNLESS SOMETHING
TERRIBLE HAPPENED HERE.
NO USE WASTING OUR
TIME TRYING TO FIND
THEM IN THE DARK.
LET'S GET TO TOWN,
ROUND UP A SEARCH PARTY.
Charles: CAROLINE!
Caroline:
ALICE, THEY'RE BACK!
OH, CHARLES.
Caroline: OH, CHARLES,
WE'VE BEEN BESIDE OURSELVES.
NOW, LISTEN, I WANT YOU
TO TRY NOT TO WORRY.
WE LOST THE BOYS.
BUT WE'RE GOING
TO GET A SEARCH
PARTY OUT,
AND WE'RE GOING
TO FIND THEM.
CHARLES, WE
WEREN'T WORRIED
ABOUT THE BOYS.
THEY'VE BEEN
BACK FOR HOURS.
WE WERE WORRIED
ABOUT YOU.
OH, THANK GOD.
WHAT HAPPENED
TO YOU?
IT'S A LONG STORY.
WHERE ARE THEY?
IN THE BARN,
WE HEATED SOME
WATER FOR A BATH.
I JUST TOLD THEM THAT
YOU GOT WORRIED AND
WENT LOOKING FOR THEM.
COME ON.
WE DON'T HAVE
ANY PROOF...
BUT WE GOT ALL THE
WAY THERE AND BACK.
AND WE PICKED UP
THE LETTER, TOO.
YEAH, BUT
WE LOST IT.
LOST THE
LETTER, HUH?
YEAH.
I DON'T BLAME
YOU FOR NOT
BELIEVING US.
WE FAILED
THE TEST.
THAT THE LETTER
YOU LOST?
HOW'D YOU
GET THAT?
YOU
FOLLOWED US?
YEAH.
Charles: SEE, WE NEVER
FIGURED YOU'D MAKE IT
IN THE FIRST PLACE,
SO, WE THOUGHT
WE'D BETTER KEEP
AN EYE ON YOU,
JUST IN CASE YOU
GOT IN TROUBLE.
WE WANTED TO
TEACH YOU A LESSON.
WE FELT LIKE WE
WERE DOING IT FOR
YOUR OWN GOOD.
YOU SURPRISED US BY
KEEPING YOUR SIDE
OF THE BARGAIN.
WELL, WE'LL KEEP
OUR SIDE OF IT, TOO.
FROM NOW ON, YOU'LL
BE TREATED LIKE MEN.
DIDN'T THINK I MEANT
THAT MUCH TO YOU.
WELL, OF
COURSE YOU DO.
THAT GOES FOR
ME, TOO, SON.
YOU KNOW, PA...
I DON'T CARE SO
MUCH ABOUT BEING
A MAN JUST YET.
ME NEITHER.
KIND OF JUST LIKE
BEING YOUR BOY.
I DON'T SUPPOSE
ANYBODY'S HUNGRY.
HEY, THIS IS
NO TIME FOR
JOKES, WOMAN.
[ALL LAUGHING]
WE'LL GET IT
ON THE TABLE
WHILE ALL YOU
LITTLE BOYS
WASH UP.
Laura: THINGS WERE A
LOT DIFFERENT AFTER THAT.
ANDY DECIDED TO
GO BACK TO SCHOOL,
AND ALBERT FIGURED IT WAS
MORE FUN TO GO FISHING
THAN WORK ALL SUMMER...
ESPECIALLY WITH PA.